This document describes the first version of the Micro Content Object Model and an abstract class lib MicroContentObject (MCO). It is intended as a paper for thinking about, discussing and using an appropiate model to handle microcontent. This approach does not use keywords to find and glue related pieces of microcontent, it merely focusses - beyond computing relvancy from matching strings on web pages - on the fact that content preferably is linked to "real world" related content and applications, driven by criteria and ideas which are as individual as the context a collection of microcontent represents. Implementing MCOM should benefit the programmer as well as the user by accessing content and appropiate context in one convenient model.
# Describing the problem #
> After handling microcontent in a variety of environments, I had two recurring experiences: people only want to change small things if their collection (i.e. a news magazine or a corporate website) once has been established. These websites regularly consist of a number of items, displayed in a context (this context is what we usually call the webpage). Sometimes collections of collections have to be arranged and put into a new context, creating thematical pages. Keywords, categories, RSS, commenting - content management consists of a variety of techniques and systems, all describing HOW to display content, but not trying to describe the content itself: While on one hand we have sophisticated models to translate the procedures from the real world into applications to handle whatever content a computer can display, on the other hand we lack of models describing the qualities and semantics of the content itself. Don't panic - this is far from the point of making a program conscious of its tasks. But we are moving one step into the semantics of micro content objects: the relations (here: links from and to) with other micro content objects is made part of the object's properties. In simple words: people always wish to combine and update as well content as application applying their own ideas and criteria. More than that, they are not willing to deal with a programmers view on categorization etc., while they are interested in the main question: how do I get A,B,C and D together on one page? An how do I tell that C relates to F and G, while A and B both relate to F? The answer is quite simple: save the URIs of F and G tgether with A, and tell F and G about that. Then save it along with them. Easy, hm? Not quite. Simple pupose and main question: "These items belong together. How do I tell them?"

# What changes? #
> By applying the MCOM, you get a model that does not require any new programming language, skills, frameworks or included classes. By applying MCOM you get documents which you may manipulate based on their content's relationships. You may view and "drill down" into content of any MIME type and display content by levels from various sources, all on one dynamic page ("to contain and to be contained"). You get a new descriptor for the network of micro content objects - you even may view informational trees, display all documents along a certain "path" to a certain depth and get a dynamic view on all objects based on their "depth". With MCOM, you can script documents based on their content rather than based on their technical structure. All this can be done using the traditional web programmer's toolbox and is widely based on AJAX style - may be it makes  life a little easier by having one page displaying bunchs of content and deep links in one convenient place without ever reloading any new page on whatsoever site.

# Bloglands... #
> In practical terms: this model cries for example usage with common weblog and content management systems. Microcontent as generated by those systems is perfect: it is full of links to external ressources, it consists of tagged structures expressable in MCOM, messaging between systems is widely supported, permalinks are a common way of retrieving unique microcontent elements (the reasons why examples tend to be entries from weblogs). Remember, an entry may contain a full-blown webplication, script generating a collection of MCO... move away from categories and comments, rather add a MCO to your weblog and link it to the respective thread (and to any other interesting resource). And don't forget to message the remote MCO about that ;-)

# Resume #
Constructing an MCOM object will result in an object which contains MIME based data and collections of metadata, at least on the object's location and MIME type. Additionally, a special collection named "relatives" contains information (URLs) on related documents which are not directly linked from the MIME data. This collection may be updated from MCOM objects linking to it, either from MIME data or relatives collection. This is done by using "update", one of three basic methods: "init" initially loads a MCO into a document, "expand" expands a node in a MCO's contextual network. While the displaying MCO is rendered by the client'S browser, object data is delivered by a simple serverside controller. Appropiate properties of the MCO are rendered and displayed as nodes within the DOM to simplyfy the view.  AJAX techniques help retrieve and display semantical vectors and their resulting trees. MCOM integrates with MVC and DOM, so all objects can be expressed in common scripting languages.